---
tags:
  - DGT3003-Week-3-Review
---

# Approaches in Game Design

Many concepts in game design rely on collaboration. There are three major perspectives that must be considered to when designing a game:
- Artistic Approach :: An approach in game design where designers think in terms of aesthetics and material composition
<!--SR:!2024-01-26,3,250-->
- Engineering Approach :: Think in terms of math, technology, methodology, rules of play, and physics
<!--SR:!2024-01-26,3,250-->
- Craft Approach :: Combining both aesthetic and functional elements. Artists and Engineers have to collaborate to make the best project.
<!--SR:!2024-01-26,3,250-->
## Player Centric Approach

The Player Centric Approach in Game Design is a philosophy of design in which the designer envisions a representative player of a game the designer wants to create. A good example of this would be a game company developing a Multiplayer, Cross-Platform, RPG game and regularly releasing Downloadable-Content (DLC) or frequent updates.

The Duty To Entertain - Developer tailors the game's overall object to entertain the player ^841318
- Other motivations are secondary (Good game designers don't make shitty mobile games or Call of Duty)

The Duty To Empathize - Developer imagines himself/herself as the player and builds the games based on players desires 
### Other Motivations:
- Market-driven
- Designer-Driven
- License-Driven
- Technology-Driven
- Art-Driven
## Key Components of Video Games

Some of the key components of video games rely on the overall feel of the game from how it works to how it looks.


### Core Mechanics

### Week 3 Flashcards

What are the [[#Player Centric Approach]|two major duties]] in the player centric approach?
?
The duty to entertain & the duty to empathize.
<!--SR:!2024-01-26,3,250-->