# Threat Environment

## What can you do as a user vs what a business can do against threats/attacks?

Safeguards and controls can be used as ways to prevent and detect intrusions for system security.
## Preventative, Detective, & Corrective Countermeasures
### Preventative Countermeasures:
- Use anti-virus software
- Use firewalls
- Use [[Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS)]]
- Install OS and application updates
- Do not open unknown files or click unknown links from unknown sources
- Mock phishing schemes
- Awareness Training
- Implement computer/network use policies
- Good password policies
### Detective Countermeasures:
- Use [[Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS)]]
- Monitor network and IT infrastructure with staff
### Corrective Countermeasures
- [[Develop Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP)]]
- [[Business Continuity Plan (BCP)]]
## Example: Intel's Countermeasures Approach

Intel uses a Prediction-Prevention-Detection-Response approach.

- Prediction
	- First category that reduces threats by predicting attacks to lower cost and allow for better detection, prevention, and response
- Prevention

## Countermeasures' General Strategy

In order to be successful, you have to implement multiple countermeasures to adequately prevent, predict, detect, and respond. Using Preventative, Detective, and Corrective countermeasures, we can easily achieve this goal. 

Technology, while helpful, cannot solely prevent security breaches. We have to rely on adequate training of staff along with staff monitoring. Psychology is also a major asset in Systems Security.

## Defense-in-Depth Approach

The Defense-in-Depth approach is a comprehensive cybersecurity strategy that employs multiple layers of defense mechanisms to protect systems, networks, and data from various security threats. This approach recognizes that no single security measure can provide complete protection, so it implements a combination of safeguards to create a layered defense. Sometimes, layers of defense are redundant for prevention.

## Psychology, Technology, Policies Countermeasures

### Technology:
- Use anti-virus software
- Use firewalls
- Use [[Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS)]]
- Install OS and application updates
### People and Psychology:
- Do not open unknown files or click unknown links from unknown sources
- Mock phishing schemes
- Awareness Training
### Policies and Procedures:
- Implement computer/network use policies
- Good password policies
- Developing a [[Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP)]]
- Developing a [[Business Continuity Plan (BCP)]]

The effectiveness of Information Security is the overall function of Technology, People & Psychology, and Procedures/policies. People usually being the weakest link.
# Firewalls
## What is a firewall?
- A firewall can be a software program
- A firewall can be a hardware device
- Firewalls are used to protect single computers against security threats. They can also be used to protect a whole network against security threats
- Firewalls can be configured to monitor inbound and outbound traffic and protect against attacks by intruders
## Definition of a Firewall
Firewall - hardware and/or software used to protect a single host or an entire network that "sit" between a trusted network and an untrusted network



## Applications of Firewalls in a System

Companies and IT professionals may use both host and network firewalls to achieve the [[#Defense-in-Depth Approach]]. 

## Types of Firewalls
- Static Packet Filtering Firewalls (1<sup>st</sup> Generation)
	- Inspect TCP/IP & UDP headers to make filtering decisions
	- Do static filtering of individual packets based on configured ruleset (or [[Access Control List (ACL)]])
	- Prevents port spoofing
- Stateful Packet Filtering Firewalls (2<sup>nd</sup> Generation)
	- Inspect TCP/IP & UDP headers to make filtering decisions
	- Do stateful filtering by checking the firewall's state table for relation of packets -> packets already filters
	- If packet does not match existing connection, it's dropped and logged
	- Examples of this are Network Address Translation (NAT)
	- Prevents SYN flooding
- Application Firewalls (3<sup>rd</sup> Generation)
	- Proxy Firewalls
	- Inspect the Application Layer message (HTTP requests, email contents, etc)
	- Specialized proxy firewalls that prevent malware attacks

=======
# Security Planning
Proactive plan developed to protect IT assets. Security planning involves assessing an organization's current security situation and develop a plan for protecting the organization's IT infrastructure. Security planning is a process.

## The Process of Security Planning

The process of security planning involves 6 major steps:
1. Assess the organization's current IT Security situation.
	- How often do attacks occur?
	- Who are likely attackers?
2. Determine factors that may drive changes or affect Information Security situations.
	- Possible increases in security threats
	- Changes in compliance laws and regulations
	These can represent the prediction phase in [[#Example Intel's Countermeasures Approach]]. The team must predict the overall security threat in the future.
3. Creating an inventory of organizational resources/assets and the current protection level.
	- Databases, servers, client computers, etc.
4. Classify resources/assets by security sensitivity
	- High, moderate, and low
	- Mission-critical <-> Non Mission-critical
	- U.S. Government classification
5. Determine gaps between current and desired protection levels for each resource/asset
6. Develop an IT Security Plan to bridge gaps.
	Some things to consider:
	- Timeline & budget of project
	- [[#Psychology, Technology, Policies Countermeasures]]
You need to prioritize what is important to lock down and what isn't that prevents going over budget and reaching deadlines on time.

## Information Security Policy

An information security policy is a document that outlines requirements or rules that any entity must comply to help secure an organization's threat environment

### Typical Policies:
- Acceptable Use Policy (AUP)
- Acceptable Encryption Policy
- [[Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP)]] Policy
- Data Breach Response Policy
- BYOD Policy
- Email, Password, Remote Access Policy


### Policy Content
This is the general outline required for major policy changes:
- Policy Title & Date
- The summary of why a policy is need and what it is about
- Purpose
- Scope of resources/assets the plan is supposed to protect
- Policy statement
- Policy compliance/Disciplinary actions
- Related Standards & Guidelines
